# Branches

## Shell approach

### `netcat`

Latest commit cbf4092058d90297828d02c927a6b1becab0da84 as of 2024-02-22

A bash script that listens to a local TCP port with `nc` for a request.
It uses embeded Javascript-for-Automation (JXA) scripts to instruct Apple Photos to export the requested photo to a temporary directory from which is then served.

### `tcpserver/mono`

Lastest commit 212f229f33d64626c6aa054f728fab2d2c8daa87 as of 2024-02-22

Offshoot of the `netcat` branch, uses `tcpserver` instead of `netcat`.

### `tcpserver/micro`

Lastest commit 8cf48dcfb23c8d55a56568b6558c0f694b3e1f28 as of 2024-02-22

Extract the JXA scripts to their own files.

There is still some embedded JXA; it's used to decode the requested URL. (I think this is what led to the maximal-JXA approach.)

## JavaScript-for-Automation (JXA) (osascript) approach

### `JXA` (abandonned on 2024-02-22)

Lastest commit 1ba15e789b9346bda6fc35d669fbd2ac5ee9ed66 as of 2024-02-22

Attempt to rewrite everything using as much JXA as possible.

JXA is a pain to program, a good deal of the code are functions that are
wrappers for shell commands, and everything is a library that needs to
be in the `~/Library/Script Libraries` folder, so it's a pain to
distribute.

This is definitely not the way to go, but has improved my JXA skills!

## `bun` approach

Using the `bun` runtime to write as much as possible in javascript.

Currently the biggest issue is the difficulty in removing temporary files. This might be resolved by using the the [Elysia](https://elysiajs.com/) framework.

The JXA components are still called as external commands, so the fact that both parts are written in javascript offers no advantage.

It might be worth looking into using the `[nodeautomation](https://hhas.github.io/nodeautomation/) npm package, which allegedly "allows 'AppleScriptable' applications to be controlled by Node.js (JavaScript) scripts." It is unclear how stable it is, or how well it is maintained; bugs were fixed as recently as last year: [source on github](https://github.com/hhas/nodeautomation). It comes with this warning:

> Caution: This is an alpha release. There will be bugs and rough edges.

### `bun/sync`

Latest commit c4b1d7fd53d9b4aa4244dcd6d899788c1f272e01 as of 2024-02-22

Original javascript implementation. Written entirely with synchronous functions.

#### Issues

The server hitting occasional segmentation faults, possibly caused by the self-terminating `get-photo-id` subprocesses.

### `bun/await`

Lastest commit 4cee8dd39c098391f8e8cdcfdbabaeb7a2fc9c6e as of 2024-02-22

Re-implementation using asynchronous functions, mostly using await--except
for in the primary request-handling function, which uses the .then
construct.

#### Issues

Can't remove temporary files after returning http response

### bun/then.catch

lastest commit 906d5a9fb40d6fc412ccc772418e413ea4eea2b7 as of 2024-02-22

Removed all await operators, and instead use the .then/.catch construct
throughout. I prefer reading the code written in this manner; it feels
more like functional programming.

#### Issues

Can't remove temporary files after returning http response
