# 2024-02-16 21:29 Progress Note

## Issues

### Slow `tcpserver` implementation compared to `bun` one

Extracting `JXA` scripts did not help. It seems the speedup was due to
eliminating the timeout, not the embedding. It seems the
`get-photo-id` JXA script is not returning control back to
`photos-server` until the timeout expires, even when the main script is
done. This was not expected as the timeout is run in a background process.
It is also interesting that this does not cause a problem with the
`bun` implementation.

Experimenting on the command line, I found that the problem (waiting for
the background subprocess to finish) occurs when `get-photo-id` is called
as part of a command substitution. So the following stalls:

```sh
id="$(get-photo-id --timeout 4 994EC52A-4A7E-4720-8618-81AF56E777BE)"
```

But the following does not stall:

```sh
(get-photo-id --timeout 4 994EC52A-4A7E-4720-8618-81AF56E777BE)
```

An the variable can be set with:

```sh
get-photo-id --timeout 4 994EC52A-4A7E-4720-8618-81AF56E777BE | read id
```

unfortunately, this doesn't work with queries with empty responses or
bad ids. I think it's because with a positive result, the `read` command
get's its line of input then moves on.

### Workaround

A workaround, is to avoid using `get-photo-id`'s built-in timeout, and
istead wrap it in a call to GNU `timeout`. This solution would not work
if we wanted to keep the JAX scripts embedded the `photos-server` shell
script.

Test run completed 50 downloads in **34.106** seconds.

## To Do

Rework the timeout in `get-photo-id` so that it doesn't block returning
control when it is called with a command substitution.
